Welcome, in this video, we're going to create a branch locally, and then push it up to GitHub.
I'm currently logged into GitHub, and I'm on the "website" repository,
on the master branch. And if I go over to my terminal,
I'm also on the corresponding local Git repository,
also on the master branch, which happens to be up-to-date with 'origin/master'
and I am in a clean working directory state.
In a previous video, we created a branch directly on GitHub
and we did a commit directly on GitHub;
however, modifying files directly on GitHub is not exactly a best practice.
What you'll end up doing most of the time is creating your branches locally,
and then pushing them up to GitHub; so, let's do that now.
I'm going to create a branch called "remove-ipsum".
So, the command for this is "git checkout -b", in order to create the branch locally;
space; and then the name of the branch.
Great, so what we did is create a new branch, and then switched into it at the same time;
again, we are starting out locally. Listing out the files that I have in my repository,
we have "lipsum.txt", which is just a text file that has some filler text in it;
however, this file isn't really providing any tangible benefit to a website based project.
So, I'm going to remove it; using Git's "rm" command, I'm going to remove "lipsum.txt".
Doing a status, we can see that we have staged the fact that we are doing a delete.
In order to finalize this, we need to commit; "git commit -m "removing ipsum file" ".
Great, doing an "ls" again, we no longer see our "lipsum.txt" file,
and, we're back to a clean working directory; however, we've been doing this locally.
So if I head over to GitHub, do a reload just to make sure we have everything,
then go to branches; if I scroll down, the only two branches that I have listed
would be master, and the example branch we created earlier.
The "remove-ipsum" branch is not located on GitHub yet.
So, let's push that up. Syntax for that would be to use the "git push" command.
And, we've done this before, but with master;
I'm just showing you that you can do this with any branch.
"git push -u", that sets up the tracking relationship; space;
and the name of our remote, which is "origin"; and then the name of the
branch we wish to push up, which is "remove-ipsum".
Double check the line, and then press enter.
If everything was successful, you should have something that looks like this.
In particular, right after the Git URL we have a new branch being created,
that is our local branch is being pushed up to GitHub.
In doing so, it creates that new branch on GitHub.
After that, the tracking relationship is set up,
which is what the "-u" parameter was all about.
And the tracking branch just means that these two branches are in sync with each other,
or that's what their intentions are. So, if I do a "git pull",
or a Git push without specifying anymore, this is the branch that it will be going to.
So, now let's head over to GitHub, and see if that branch has arrived.
We can see that GitHub is already refreshed,
and we already have the "remove-ipsum" being detected as a new branch.
Also, if we refresh our browser, the branches list should now have
our remove-ipsum branch alongside the other two branches.
We can switch into that branch by clicking on that particular item.
Now, let's scroll down, and on this version of our files
we no longer have the "lipsum.txt" file.
However, if I switch back to master, this branch still has the "ipsum.txt" file.